h1. sqlite2pgsql

h2. LICENSE:

This file is part of sqlite2pgsql.

sqlite2pgsql is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version. 

sqlite2pgsql is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see "GNU.":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/

Copyright © 2010 "Reuben Cummings":mailto:reubano@gmail.com?subject=sqlite2pgsql

h2. INTRODUCTION:

"sqlite2pgsql":http://github.com/reubano/sqlite2pgsql is a command line program that converts CSV files to GPX files for importing into GPSPhotoLinker or similar geotagging programs. "sqlite2pgsql":http://github.com/reubano/sqlite2pgsql is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) and has been tested on the following configuration:
* MacOS X 10.5.8
* PHP 5.3.0
* Console_CommandLine 1.1.1
* GPSPhotoLinker 1.6.4

h2. REQUIREMENTS:

"sqlite2pgsql":http://github.com/reubano/sqlite2pgsql requires the following programs in order to run properly:
* "PHP 5.3+":http://pear.php.net/manual/en/installation.php
* "PEAR":http://us2.php.net/downloads.php
* "Console_CommandLine":http://pear.php.net/package/Console_CommandLine/download
* "reubano/sqlite2pgsql":http://github.com/reubano/sqlite2pgsql
* "reubano/library":http://github.com/reubano/library

h2. PREPARATION:

_*check that PHP, PEAR, and Console_CommandLine are installed*_

<pre>php -v
pear list</pre>

_*set the directory that you wish to hold the program*_

@cd /path/to/repos@

_*clone sqlite2pgsql using "Git":http://git-scm.com/download (recommended)*_

<pre>git clone git://github.com/reubano/library.git
git clone git://github.com/reubano/sqlite2pgsql.git
</pre>

_*or download sqlite2pgsql on Linux*_

<pre>wget -c http://github.com/reubano/library/zipball/master
unzip reubano-library*
rm -f reubano-library*.zip
mv reubano-library*/ library
wget -c http://github.com/reubano/sqlite2pgsql/zipball/master
unzip reubano-sqlite2pgsql*
rm -f reubano-sqlite2pgsql*.zip
mv reubano-sqlite2pgsql*/ sqlite2pgsql</pre>

_*or download sqlite2pgsql on Mac*_

<pre>
curl -Lo library.zip http://github.com/reubano/library/zipball/master
unzip library
rm -f library.zip
mv reubano-library*/ library
curl -Lo sqlite2pgsql.zip http://github.com/reubano/sqlite2pgsql/zipball/master
unzip sqlite2pgsql
rm -f sqlite2pgsql.zip
mv reubano-sqlite2pgsql*/ sqlite2pgsql
</pre>

http://downloads.metala.org/pear/MDB2/MDB2_Driver_pdoSqlite.tar.bz2
cp ~/Downloads/MDB2_Driver_pdoSqlite/pdoSqlite.php /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver
cp ~/Downloads/MDB2_Driver_pdoSqlite/Datatype/pdoSqlite.php /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Datatype
cp ~/Downloads/MDB2_Driver_pdoSqlite/Function/pdoSqlite.php /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Function
cp ~/Downloads/MDB2_Driver_pdoSqlite/Manager/pdoSqlite.php /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Manager
cp ~/Downloads/MDB2_Driver_pdoSqlite/Native/pdoSqlite.php /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Native
cp ~/Downloads/MDB2_Driver_pdoSqlite/Reverse/pdoSqlite.php /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Reverse
sudo chown root /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chown root /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Datatype/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chown root /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Function/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chown root /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Manager/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chown root /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Native/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chown root /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Reverse/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chmod 666 /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chmod 666 /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Datatype/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chmod 666 /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Function/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chmod 666 /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Manager/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chmod 666 /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Native/pdoSqlite.php
sudo chmod 666 /usr/local/pear/MDB2/Driver/Reverse/pdoSqlite.php

h2. INSTALLATION:

_*Create symlink of sqlite2pgsql in your ~/bin directory*_

<pre>if [-d $~/bin]; then mkdir ~/bin; fi
ln -s ./sqlite2pgsql/sqlite2pgsql.php ~/bin/sqlite2pgsql</pre>

_*Make sqlite2pgsql executable and add ~/bin to your PATH variable so that you can run 'sqlite2pgsql' from the command line*_

<pre>chmod 755 ~/bin/sqlite2pgsql
echo 'export PATH=~/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.profile
. ~/.profile</pre>

h2. USING sqlite2pgsql:

h3. Usage:

<pre>sqlite2pgsql [options] <csv_file></pre>

h3. Options:

<pre>  -d, --debug                 enables debug mode, displays the options and
                              arguments passed to the parser
  -o /path, --out-file=/path  location and name of resulting output file
                              (use '-' to write to stdout), defaults to the
                              project 'gpx_files' folder
  -r, --variables             enables variable mode, displays the value of
                              all program variables
  -v, --verbose               verbose output
  -h, --help                  show this help message and exit
  --version                   show the program version and exit

h3. Arguments:

@csv_file /path@

h3. Usage examples:

_*normal usage*_

@sqlite2pgsql ~/Downloads/gps_points.csv@

_*direct gpx file output to the user's downloads folder*_

@sqlite2pgsql -o ~/Downloads/gpx_file.gpx ~/Downloads/gps_points.csv@

h3. Where does sqlite2pgsql save files?

sqlite2pgsql saves resultant gpx files in the "gpx_files" sub-folder of the installed "sqlite2pgsql" folder. 

h3. Date/time format examples:

@'Apr 4, 2010 11:19 AM'@
@'04/04/10 11:19 AM'@
@'04-04-10 11:19'@